# Cyclist Arrests

An analysis of police data from Chicago

* In May 2017, Fredy Martinez filed a request with the Chicago Police Department for records of tickets and arrests related to cyclists in the city of Chicago. The government responded and by end of June made available two pdfs containing data. The corresponding documents can be obtained on Muckrock: https://www.muckrock.com/foi/chicago-169/bike-tickets-arrest-38464/
* I downloaded the pdfs. One of them contains 165 pages of tables, listing all the tickets issued to cyclists over the last five years. The other one is 3 pages long and lists all incidents where cyclists were arrested. I chose to work with the second one because it contains more information.
* My analysis involved extracting the tabular data with TABULA. I then loaded the .csv file into JUPYTER notebook and used PANDAS and GEOPANDAS to structure the data. I also used REQUESTS to get geographical info from the GOOGLE API. The mapping was done with LEAFLET. The final output shows around 400 incidents on a street map of Chicago. The incidents are color-coded by race. Clicking on an incidents opens a popup that displays information about the date of the arrest, the age of the person involved and the supposed law violation.
* I chose to map the incidents according to race because it is the most obvious feature of the data. More than three quarters of all arrests involved black people, when only about a third of the population is actually black. It is unclear at this point whether the overrepresentation is caused by different crime rates in the population or by racially motivated arrest patterns on the side of the police. But the fact remains that as a black cyclist, you are much more likely to be arrested than as a white or hispanic cyclist.
